---
layout: post
title:  "Movie review: Pig"
tags: movies reviews
---
<!--- Ideas:
+ The use of silence was used well to enhance the athmosphere of the movie
+ The movie was subtle about the fact that a major theme was food
+ It was a deep exploration of the differences in people's experiences with grief.
+ The character of Rob was kept a mystery quite well
+ A good example of the "Show it, don't tell it" rule
--->

Pig follows the story of Robin Feld in his quest to find his truffle-hunting pig which was stolen from him. It is a very nice depiction of the different ways people will deal with grief over a lost one in their life. The three main characters in the movie are Robin Feld, Amir and Darius. Rob deals with the death of his wife by becoming a recluse who lives in the forest with minimal contact with other people. He leaves a succesfull career as a chef behind and seems to find some comfort in solitude, however it is clear that he has not been able to poperly process or accept the loss of his wife. Amir is the son of Darius, his mother seems to suffer from a terminal disease. Amir deals with the loss of his mother in his life by focusing all his energy on trying to impress his father and to live up to the high expectations set by his father. He knows deep down that his father's relation towards him is cruel and unhealthy but he cannot bring himself to let go of the last parent he still has, so he keeps on trying to impress his father. Darius himself also handles the loss of his wife in a troubled way as he almost refuses to acknowledge it, and he throws himself completely into his work, to the detriment of his relation with his son. The movie does a good job of showing how little satisfaction this brings him however. He lives in a big empty house where he needs to be pushed hard to come out of his office to eat a dinner that his son has prepared.

Throughout the movie all three of the characters are forced to leave these emotional bubbles they have been living in, and in the process they discover parts of their lives they thought were lost. Robin has to come back to civilization in the search for his stolen pig, throughout his journey he rediscovers his love of cooking meals for people, something that he had given up. Amir has to confront his relationship with his father and he comes to the conclusion that more drastic actions are necessary to repair his relationship with his father. The movie leaves the story of Darius with a more open ending but with hints of a breakthrough for him as well.

I enjoyed how the movie portrayed Robin as a mistery character and it didn't try to explain anything about his pasts, it allowed the audience to slowly piece his story together themselves. Nicholas Cage was really good in his role here. Overall I really enjoyed the movie.