---
layout: post
title:  "Fear of Starting"
date:   2022-11-14 00:00:00
tags: productivity thoughts planning
categories: blog
---

I was reading a few [blog](https://the.scapegoat.dev/turning-music-into-a-chore-is-what-made-me-an-artist/) [posts](https://commoncog.com/get-numb-get-good/) today which covered the topic of the fear of starting and the natural remedy to that fear. Personally my issue with this fear is that it has almost no relation to the task at hand, I experience it just as much for small tasks as for big tasks. The immediate urgency seems to be more of a factor, if something has to be done today, then I can usually overcome it more easily than if it were due within a week.

The usual remedy, is to try and break down the tasks and to get familiar with each of the steps and make them look easy by making them smaller. The blog posts linked above, however, talked about another similar strategy which is aiming to become numb to a task. This means that the aim of practicing a task must be to become numb to the small self-criticisms and doubts that creep up and to rely on the judgment after the creation to be sufficient. To make this strategy effective, I think, requires a strong belief in the fact that there will be a second attempt. Often I feel as though I will only have one chance to do the task (because I approach most tasks in a way which only allows for one attempt). If I firmly believe that I will have a large number of attempts at a task, then the best strategy is obviously to just get started and to get through the first few attempts as quickly as possible. Most of the learning from those early attempts will come in a subtle, unconscious form anyway, just by becoming familiar with the task. Whenever I have attempted such an approach I always do end up stuck over-criticizing some minute detail and I spend way too much time on the first attempt. The only way to make this viable then would be to set very strict time constraints on the first couple attempts, a maximum allotted time to spend on each attempt. Another good idea is to fix the number of attempts beforehand and make them mandatory. Such that I am required to make five attempts at writing a cover letter for example, even if I feel good about the fourth attempt, I still have to rewrite it again. This is probably the more crucial aspect which will make me more numb to the task and make the task into a chore.

It's probably obvious why I am writing about this on the blog, I decided that the best way to get better at writing is to make it a chore. So my plan is to post at least five posts a week to this blog and hopefully it will feel a bit like a chore, so that I can get to the good parts of being creative, and I won't be held back by my internal fears.